Pronouns	Assamese
Default PRP
i	mai
we	Ami
you	Apuni
he	tEO/ si
she	tAi
it	EiTOvE
they	sihatE
me	mOra
us	AmAra
him	tEOra/tAra
her	tAira
them	sihatara
my	mOra
our	AmAra
your	ApOnAra
his	tAra
her	tAira
its	EiTOra
their	sihatara
mine	mOra
ours	AmAra
yours	ApOnAra
theirs	sihatara
myself	mOka nijakE
ourselves	AmAka nijakE
yourself	tOmAka nijakE
yourselves	tOmAlOkaka nijakE
himself	tEOka nijakE
herself	tEOka nijakE
itself	iFyAka nijakE
themselves	sihataka nijakE


As object (Base form)  PRP_POBJ

me	mOra
us	AmAra
you	ApOnAra
him	tEOra/tAra
her	tAira
it	EiTOra
them	sihatara
myself	mOra nijara
yourself	ApOnAra nijara
himself	tEOra nijara
herself	tEOra nijara
itself	iFyAra nijara
ourselves	AmAra nijara
yourselves	ApOnAlOkara nijara
themselves	sihatara nijara

As object + KO form  PRP trans ko

me	mOka
us	AmAka
you	ApOnAka
him	tEOka
her	tAika
it	EiTOka
them	sihataka
myself	mOka nijakE
yourself	ApOnAka nijakE
himself	tEOka nijakE
herself	tEOka nijakE
itself	iFyAka nijakE
ourselves	AmAka nijakE
yourselves	ApOnAlOkaka nijakE
themselves	sihataka nijakE


As subject (Passive voice)  PRP subj pass

i	mOka
we	AmAka
you	ApOnAka
he	tEOka
she	tAika
it	EiTOka
they	sihataka


As subject reference PRP subj ref

I	mai
we	Ami
you	Apuni
he	tEO
she	tEO
it	EiTOvE
they	sihatE

As attribute to noun (It is me/them/they/hers/...) PRP attr

me	mai
us	Ami
you	Apuni
him	tEO
her	tAi
it	EiTO
them	sihata
mine	mOra
ours	AmAra
yours	ApOnAra
his	tEOra
hers	tAira
its	EiTOra
theirs	sihatara


As Dative form  PRP dative

me	mOka
us	AmAka
you	ApOnAka
him	tEOka
her	tAika
it	EiTOka
them	sihataka
myself	nijEi
ourselves	nijEi
yourself	nijEi
himself	nijEi
herself	nijEi
itself	nijEi
themselves	nijEi

As clausal complement (CCOMP)  (Same as "As object (base form)" ) PRP ccomp

me	mOra
us	AmAra
you	ApOnAra
him	tEOra
her	tAira
it	EiTOra
them	sihatara
myself	mOra nijara
ourselves	AmAra nijara
yourself	ApOnAra nijara
himself	tEOra nijara
herself	tEOra nijara
itself	iFyAra nijara
themselves	sihatara nijara

As subject  + NE form  PRP subj ne

i	mai
we	Ami
you	Apuni
he	tEO
she	tAi
it	EiTOvE
they	sihatE

Subject with aux KO form PRP subj aux ko

i	mai
we	Ami
you	Apuni
he	tEO
she	tAi
it	EiTOvE
they	sihatE
